>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And I
think many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>> People are basically going
to keep on to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: How many
of us pick up the newspaper
or watch television
or listen to the radio
and daily hear
stories of hacking,
computer hacking, that
some commercial company has
been nailed and
your information,
your private information,
has been taken,
confiscated by who knows whom?
Well, our guest on "Beyond
Belief" is Charles R. Smith.
He's an expert in
cyber technology.
What a field, Charles,
that you're in.
My gosh.
>>CHARLES SMITH: Well,
it is coming of age.
We've been in it since the end
of the Cold War, more or less.
But it's now migrated right
down to your street level.
>>NOORY: How did it happen?
>>SMITH: Well,
obviously the advent
of the computer
and the Internet,
and then finally the
computer on your cellphone
or your wristwatch or your
camera or your television.
We've become more or less
like tagged dolphins,
walking around with electronic
devices all over us.
>>NOORY: We've become too
technical, haven't we?
>>SMITH: In some cases
that is a big disadvantage.
And we've actually
found people going back
to the good old ways
of using typewriters
or not connected
to the Internet.
And they're the only
ones seem to be secure.
>>NOORY: Charles, what
the heck is a typewriter?
Oh, I remember that.
I used to hunt and
peck all the time
when I was doing newscasts
in the early days.
But I only did it with two
fingers, which I still so.
>>SMITH: Right.
Well, nowadays, you'll be
doing it on your cell phone
and you'll be taking a
video at the same time.
And who knows who else
is also watching you
as you're typing it?
>>NOORY: That's a good point.
How did you get involved
in all of this, Charles?
>>SMITH: I backed into this
because I'm an old Cold
Warrior.
During the original 1980s, we
were transitioning computers
from gigantic room-size
things to something that could
be transported for the US Army.
And one of the items
that we created
was a global network
for these computers
to talk to each other.
Well, as contractors, we
had to talk to each other
as well, so I helped develop
a little communication system
to talk with each other.
And we also secured
that basically
because we didn't want the
US Army and the government
to see what we were saying.
But one evening a
general walked by,
who happened to be the
commander of the base,
and saw me hacking away at
this little communications
network with one of my
compatriots in Alaska.
And he inquired,
and I told him what
it was, showed
him how it worked,
how you could secure
it with code words.
And suddenly we saw
all of the officers
on the base who had basically
neglected their computers up
to that point suddenly
swarming to their computers
every day so they could
communicate with each other.
>>NOORY: Did you ever
anticipate the day
that people would be
hacking into computers
the way they're doing it now?
>>SMITH: Yes, we did.
We actually tried to harden
some of the Army computers.
And then later on,
as we got further
into how things could
happen, we began
designing both offensive and
defensive types of systems,
hardware and software.
I can remember
distinctively speaking
with some of my compatriots
saying that, you could destroy
a hard drive with a
computer program or a virus
if it was downloaded or
placed on a computer.
And they greeted
that with skepticism.
Destroy hardware with
computer software?
And once we
demonstrated it, that's
when a lot of the individuals
involved with the operations
became extremely concerned,
because they recognized
how vulnerable they were.
These days, with everything
being computerized,
we can see that the
communications networks are
actually your biggest opening.
Literally, if you open
yourself to the world,
the world can come storming
right through your front door,
and it may not necessarily
be a nice kind of world.
Cell phones and
wireless computers
operate with radio
waves, meaning
that if I can broadcast and
receive, so can the bad guys.
And as we all know, nowadays
with your credit card,
the ancient credit
card magnetic stripe
contains very little
information as
compared to what is necessary
for, say, the credit card
industry to secure
your credit card.
We found that out with Target.
The hacking of
Target was actually
almost an opportunistic
kind of thing,
where a contractor
for Target was hacked.
Basically what they were doing
was monitoring Target stores
and how much
electricity they would
use to heat and/or cool them.
Well, Target gave them direct
access to their computer system
in order to do this.
One of their employees
carelessly downloaded something
in a phishing scam, which
was they get an email
and they click on it.
And the net result was the
hackers now had an access point
to get into the Target
computer systems
literally down at
the store level.
And of course, once you
get into the store level,
it wasn't very long
before they figured out
how they could get right down to
the card swipe terminal level.
And at that point they
began gathering, obviously,
large numbers of credit card
numbers and pin numbers, which
was of great concern
to both the banks
as well as to major consumers.
The answer, of course,
security-wise, to all of this,
was to let's encrypt
literally at the terminal,
and we need to start
swiping turning over
cards from the
old magnetic swipe
into a more secure
chip, which we actually
proposed, I believe, in 1992.
So you can see how
long it's taken.
The credit card industry
is not all that interested
in the security aspects.
They get to write that off.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>SMITH: Oh, absolutely.
And of course, the
consumer is the one
that ends up paying for it,
both by paying extra fees.
And the flip side is,
if you're the one that
got hit with the
credit fraud, you're
the one that one has to end
up with cleaning up the mess.
And, of course, the
federal government
is really not interested
in allowing the credit card
industry to secure things as
well because they are quite
interested in monitoring
the financial track
transactions on en mass basis,
usually under the guise of law
enforcement or anti-terrorism
or intelligence operations.
However, sweeping large
amounts of data, as we've seen,
has been relatively
ineffective in stopping
any of the criminal
and/or terrorist elements.
>>NOORY: Are these
people these hackers who
are hitting commercial
enterprises,
are they doing this like 24/7?
They're just sitting around
at a computer somewhere
in some country just
trying to get into access?
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
In fact, they
actually work in teams
literally around the
clock on shift basis.
The real professional
gangs actually
have their own data
centers, supercomputers.
As you can well tell
with the Target and the--
>>NOORY: Sony.
>>SMITH: The Sony hack.
>>NOORY: We'll talk about
Sony in a second here.
>>SMITH: Yes.
These hacks, in some
cases, can be directed back
towards government entities.
Sometimes they're
directed back to
professional criminal entities.
Sometimes it's a
combination of both,
since the criminal entities
can be more or less made
into mercenaries depending
on how operations go.
And acting as mercenaries,
they frequently
will leave trails
after combat operations
to come back and
exploit commercially.
So I reflected upon
this back in the '90s
when I looked at an FBI
compatriot and said,
listen, you work
40 hours a week.
You go home and you
knock off for the day.
Your adversary is someone
who has no social life, who
would stay up 48, 72 hours even
without going to the bathroom
in order to accomplish
what they're doing.
Which one of you do you
think is better equipped
to perform an
offensive operation?
Very clearly, the vested
interests have found this
and are recruiting
these individuals,
not only in the professional
and governmental senses,
but as well as in the
criminal enterprise senses.
We've seen the Lizard Squad, for
example, who've recently hacked
Sony and Xbox and others.
They haven't done it
for commercial gain.
They did it just for fun.
They brought down whole
networks of gaming systems just
to prove a point.
>>NOORY: During Christmas.
>>SMITH: Yes.
Just to prove a point.
Just to be--
>>NOORY: Can you
imagine how many
fathers unpacked their
Xboxes with a little kid
there all excited, and
he tried to hook it up,
and it wasn't working
because it was hacked.
And he's probably thinking
he's doing something wrong,
how has he screwed up?
And the little kid is crying,
daddy, I want to play.
And you can't do it.
I mean, I don't find that funny,
but I guess these people do.
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
And then you have
the other group,
for example, Anonymous,
who have been associated
both with commercial as well
as non-commercial just plain
vandal type of hackings.
>>NOORY: And who are they?
>>SMITH: You could say that
they're a faceless group
of individuals.
>>NOORY: Do they
know each other?
>>SMITH: In many cases they do.
They meet personally.
They meet at many of these
computer conventions.
They even have
conventions of their own.
The flip side of that is
that some of them don't meet.
Some of them have been
recruited or, in some cases,
their groups have either
been hijacked and/or employed
by government and/or criminal
entities to carry out purposes.
Crime, in a cyber
sense, not only
hits you at your credit card
or Christmas morning level--
>>NOORY: Or your bank account.
>>SMITH: Or your bank account.
A real good example of a
recent hack-- this was actually
on one of your competing
networks-- a couple came home,
and they had to put a nanny
cam up to watch their child.
And while they were
sitting pleasantly
in the living room
watching television,
they heard a voice
that they'd never
heard before coming out
of the child's bedroom.
They walked into the
back and essentially
found that someone had
hacked into their nanny cam
and was essentially cursing--
>>NOORY: Talking to the kid.
>>SMITH: Talking to
the kid, cursing,
saying that they were going
to do horrible things.
>>NOORY: And was
looking at the kid.
>>SMITH: Looking at the kid,
knew their exact address,
knew the child.
Now you've got a real problem.
And the issue here is, in
computer security terms,
commercially speaking,
most companies
aren't really willing to
put this in because it's
an extra expense.
And a good example
is like the couple
that shopped for the nanny cam.
If you have a nanny
cam at $100 that's OK,
and a nanny cam at
$200 that's secure,
which one are you gonna buy?
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>SMITH: And there are no
real requirements for anyone
to do these kinds of things.
Personally, I put
a piece of tape
over the cameras that
are on my laptop and net
book, the one that points at
you, just because perhaps I'm
a little paranoid, or perhaps
I just don't want anybody
to just happen to be
passing by and take a look
and try to view me and
find out what I'm doing.
And we've seen this get
worse from the point of view,
for example, a major corporation
represented by a piece of fruit
sells a very large
number of cell phones.
Well, it was
discovered recently,
within the past year, that
one of the applications
that individuals downloaded
officially from them
also contained a little back
door that would periodically
report on your
exact GPS location
while you held that phone.
So why would a major
corporation want
to know where you're
at at any given time?
And we have the other aspect
of this, the competing nature.
Some people enjoy using the
GPS features of their phone
so they can go find where's
the nearest pizza place,
or where are their
other friends?
Well, I hate to break
it to you, but there
are people out there
who are monitoring this
who also know where you are.
Not a really good thing.
And if you get on
your cell phone
and you text, I'm
going to the store,
I'll be a couple of hours, and
leave your house or apartment,
there might be someone
down the block,
and perhaps not the FBI,
who received that message
and know exactly who you
are and where you are.
>>NOORY: Are they that
sophisticated, Charles?
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
There are devices
called stingrays.
The FBI is currently using
them, along with the NSA.
Think of them as
mobile cell towers.
>>NOORY: I've heard about these.
We've broken some stories
about that on "Coast to Coast."
>>SMITH: You can set them
up, and essentially instead
of talking to the
local cell tower,
you're now talking
to the stingray.
Everything you
say, everything you
do, everything that the device
you carry that communicates
about you will go through
the stingray or get
picked up by it.
And it could surreptitiously
download things
onto your system if
you're not careful.
These devices are not that
difficult to put together.
Once again, back in the
1990s for a demonstration
to a congressman,
I looked at him
and said, OK, you know it is
against the law, federal law,
to have a scanner that
will monitor cell phones.
And it is.
However, it's not against
the law to have a cell phone.
It's not difficult to
modify a cell phone
to do exactly the reverse, to
monitor other conversations
and/or text messages that
come from other cell phones
within that cell district.
>>NOORY: What do they want
with all this information?
And I'm talking about
the hackers now.
What are they after here?
>>SMITH: Well, a
real good example
is hackers will download, like
in the Target case, millions
of credit card numbers
and PIN numbers,
and then resell them
on the open network
to others who abuse that
and credit card fraud
to buy and get billions of
dollars worth of equipment,
make a large amount
of money off of this.
>>NOORY: So they would
make a purchase somewhere
and have it shipped somewhere.
Let's use an example.
Somebody has a stolen
card number and PIN.
They're online.
They go to Amazon.com,
for example,
and they buy as much as
they can up to the credit
limit of that credit card before
they start getting denials,
right?
Where do the goods go?
>>SMITH: What they'll usually
do is ship it to a drop point.
And that can be an apartment
that's for temporary rent,
or a commercial business where
they can walk up and pick up
the packages and just literally
walk away and no one knows.
They could even
use the credit card
to secure the apartment as
well as the phony credentials
along with it.
It can actually blend from
commercial to military.
For example, the
Russian military
has used stolen
American credit cards
to set up hacker sites which
they used against the Ukraine
and Georgia governments
during the combat operations.
So we have this fine line no
longer being such a fine line
between being a
commercial target,
being a civilian target,
being a military target.
And you also have the flip
side, as we've mentioned.
We've seen, for example, some
of the antiquated problems
like with Craigslist,
where we had murderers
contacting individuals
for things for sale,
and then meeting them and
killing the individuals.
>>NOORY: Just to do it.
>>SMITH: Right.
Well, that is going to
become some of the norm
with your cell phone,
with text messaging,
with cell phone conversations
with GPS applications.
Those things are going
to migrate into that area
as criminals become more
sophisticated and savvy.
We've already seen
these things happen
with Internet-based
camera systems which
can be on your
computer or set up
around your house or business.
It's a great idea, but
if you don't secure it
correctly someone else could
be using it against you.
>>NOORY: It is remarkable.
I'm amazed at how many, or
the lack of, wrong numbers
I get on a cell phone.
I would get more on a landline
phone in the old days.
I don't get many now.
Why is that?
>>SMITH: One of the
features, especially
on my phone, which
I find quite useful,
is the auto reject, meaning no
matter what number comes in,
I can put it on a reject list,
whereas your major landline
carriers, if you called
them up and said,
I do not want to receive this
call from XYZ individual,
they will generally
tell you, well, it's
either going to cost you
an awful lot of money,
or we can't do that.
>>NOORY: You don't even know
the originating call sometimes.
>>SMITH: Well, because these
days you can fake calls.
You obviously get fake numbers.
Again, because of the
merger of Internet
and computerized networks, the
kind of software and hardware
that allows me to
fake a phone number
and then dial whole area codes
with that fake phone number.
And that phone number can
be just an ordinary person.
And I've already
had that experience.
>>NOORY: And it shows
up on your phone.
>>SMITH: Right.
With their name.
And then you call
them back and say,
I don't ever want to
hear you calling me
with this kind of garbage.
And the other person
at the other end
is going, what phone call?
>>NOORY: What are
you talking about?
Yeah.
Huh.
>>SMITH: Well, that's part of
the, again, newer system Skype.
There are hacks
into that that allow
foreign, literally
phone-based operations,
to generally run
massive database calls.
And the American consumer
is getting pummeled
with this on a daily basis.
And there's no way to tell
exactly where it came from,
because by the time
you track it back
through all of the
Internet jumps,
it could be somewhere
offshore, it
could be in a foreign country.
And again, we get
outside of US law,
that becomes much more difficult
to prosecute and run down.
>>NOORY: Well, that's
interesting you
say that, Charles.
I will sometimes call my
credit card companies.
What are the dangers
of those people, who
we don't know who they are,
giving away your credit card
information to friends
or other companies?
>>SMITH: That's
already occurred.
One of the major northeast
banks hired a phone bank.
The net result was a large
number of their customers,
their financial accounts
were suddenly hacked.
Large amounts of
money were missing,
credit cards were stolen.
And it was tracked
literally back
through their essentially
contracting out this call
center operation.
It cost them an awful
lot of money to do this.
And we don't necessarily
hear about these things
on a major scale because a major
bank or commercial operation
doesn't necessarily want you
to know that this has happened.
The difficulty with this is
that as we internationalize,
and in many cases offshore
a lot of these operations,
there becomes a problem of
the institutional security.
Even the US government
has found that.
Say, the NSA.
No Such Agency, as we
used to refer to it.
They don't like to be
publicized, and now that we've
mentioned them, I'm sure that
Fort Meade will be judiciously
watching your shows.
>>NOORY: Instantly.
That's right.
We're now high on their list.
>>SMITH: We knew-- they've told
me that they're fans of yours,
so they already record
your stuff anyway.
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>SMITH: The fact
remains is that if we
don't know who
you're dealing with,
then you already have
a security problem.
And even though
professionals such as myself,
who develop wide varieties of
secure equipment and software
and extreme security
and encryption systems,
you can't make it foolproof.
>>NOORY: No, you can't.
>>SMITH: The human element is
always one of the major flaws.
That's what happened
with Target.
The human element brought
in an external hacker
and suddenly their entire system
not only became vulnerable,
millions of their customers
became vulnerable along
with it.
So it spread from one to many
to millions in a matter of days.
And again, it was
the lack of foresight
on restricting the
kind of access that
should have been in place that's
done at the physical security
level.
>>NOORY: I sometimes
wonder if it's
the company that makes the
credit card, the physical card,
if they're sometimes behind
this, because they're
the ones who benefit.
When there's a hacking
worldwide and you
have to order five million
new credit cards or whatever,
don't they benefit?
>>SMITH: There's an old line
from "The Maltese Falcon" where
Humphrey Bogart shares a toast
with two other police officers.
And his quote is,
"Success to crime."
It's a business,
and without it, they
wouldn't be in business, such as
police officers and detectives,
to fight it.
In many cases there are
individuals and/or companies
who will essentially
break the window in order
to come back to fix it.
And there is not a
lot of incentive,
for example, with the
credit card industry,
to make their credit
cards very secure.
In fact, even some
of the simple things.
I myself receive blank checks
from my credit card company
about once every two weeks.
I have called them
up repeatedly,
asked for whoever
in your marketing,
please do not send these to me
because they sit in my mailbox.
Anyone could pull that
out, sign my name on it--
>>NOORY: And cash it.
>>SMITH: And cash it.
Of course, they give
me plenty excuses,
but they continue
to send the checks.
It is in their interest to have
fraud continue to take place
because they still
garnish, get that 1% or 2%
that are legitimate.
So again, if the cost is
not on them-- in essence,
most of the cost is on
you and the consumer--
and if it doesn't
cost them anything,
meaning they can hike your rate
if it does cost them something,
then they have no
incentive whatsoever
to change their ways.
It's only when you make
it unprofitable for them.
For example, if we were to
fine credit card companies
every time that
they get breached,
suddenly you would see a major
effort to stop the problem.
And that would be done at the
commercial terminal basis,
like we saw with Target.
Their terminals were
completely wide open
to their local system.
>>NOORY: Home Depot
got hit the same way.
>>SMITH: Right.
Essentially, as soon
as you swipe the card,
the information was
available to their system,
which then encrypted
it and sent it
to the credit card processor.
What they needed
to do was literally
encrypt the data at the
credit card terminal
and have it piggybacked
through their system
directly to the banks.
>>NOORY: Can this
be stopped, Charles?
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
And I can point to one entity
who has literally walked
above all of this for many
years, the Federal Reserve
Bank.
The Federal Reserve
Bank, in many cases,
doesn't garner a lot of trust.
But in my field, the Federal
Reserve Bank probably
has the best encryption
security systems
in the world, military
notwithstanding.
>>NOORY: But anybody could
follow that game plan, right,
and encrypt the same way.
>>SMITH: Absolutely.
>>NOORY:But they won't.
Why not?
Money?
>>SMITH: It's not
in their interest,
as long as they don't
have any real reason to.
The Federal Reserve Bank does.
They transfer nearly $2 trillion
a day through the banks.
If someone was to break into
that, there'd be a problem.
>>NOORY: A huge problem.
>>SMITH: And I
have, for example,
met with Alan Greenspan, the
old chairman of the Reserve.
>>NOORY: Head of the fed, right.
>>SMITH: When the NSA
walked into his office
once and said, we would
like to have a back door
to monitor transactions,
he literally
threw the NSA
agents out the door,
ordered security to escort
them from the building
and not ever let
them back in time.
And the reason is,
the answer is no.
You don't need
access, and we also
know what can happen
if we give you access.
And as we've seen with
Snowden, and as we've
seen with several Russian agents
and many of the intelligence
agencies if they get
ahold of these main keys,
there is trouble.
And if you had, say, the keys
to the entire financial global
system of the Federal
Reserve Bank--
>>NOORY: You're golden.
Charles, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
Appreciate it.
Fascinating how
hackers are breaking
into all kinds of
systems worldwide.
Wait'll you hear Charles R.
Smith on our next episode
of "Beyond Belief."